Date Tech              Karasuno
Three months have passed since they thrashed us with their Iron Wall.
The blockers vanish from my sight,
and I get a clear view of the other side of the net.
I must've seen it somewhere along the line,
but I just couldn't picture what it looked like past the Iron Wall anymore.
I wonder what the view looks like on the other side of the Iron Wall.
Rolling...
Thunder...
Again!
All right! We've got nothing to worry about!
You guys focus on what's in front!
I've got your backs.
Th...
That's so cool!
Fly
The Iron Wall of Date
Form a line!
Fly
The Iron Wall of Date
Let's have a good match!
Haikyuu !!
I take two deep breaths and calm my heart
I take a step with my left foot to break the silence
Get your nervousness in check and reign in your mind
You have it in you
You can cast out the demons
Fate? Random chance? Questions? Answers? It's all one
This is the sign
Oh, yeah!
The world is opening to us
We pass the door,
look straight ahead, and never look back
Oh, yeah!
I put my hand to my chest
I can feel the proof that I exist
It is my beating heart
Go, go, let's go! Let's go, Date Tech!
Episode Seventeen:
The Iron Wall
The Iron Wall of Date
All of you, listen up!
Karasuno's fast attack definitely took us by surprise!
But that's only due to the height of the spiker!
He may have an incredible vertical, but that's a normal fast attack!
Don't let your eyes fool you.
Completely prevent him from scoring, just as you did with their ace!
Show it to them one more time.
Show them your Iron Wall!
Yessir!
After watching them in the first round,
I expect their first shot will be a powerful serve.
They crush with serves and block every point.
Date Tech starts by discouraging their opponents from the get-go.
Receive the first ball and get it up in the air!
Yessir!
So, you know what to do, Kageyama?
Yes, sir.
Good.
Now break through that Iron Wall!
Yessir!
Karasuno, fight!
Yeah!
That's funny. Karasuno's ace is starting in the back row.
Yeah. They're starting in the strongest receiving formation.
Date Tech is playing it the same as the first round.
You can do it!
Bring it!
One point!
Kamasaki, you can do it!
C'mon!
Daichi!
Nice receive!
He has a clean form.
It's difficult to read how high the set will be.
However...
Right on! Nice placement, Hinata!
Here I thought their blockers were one step behind!
Is that "read blocking"?
The type where you jump after seeing the set?
Yeah.
Until now, most opposing schools used "commit blocks," where they jump after predicting the set to a degree.
But Date Tech uses hardcore read blocking.
They jump after they see where the set is going.
In other words...
they don't fall for decoys that easily.
This sets them a step behind making the block,
but their number seven narrows that gap instantly.
He's big, and he's fast.
That's scary.
Their read blocking is going to be trouble.
How do you think Karasuno will deal with it?
I'm not sure.
Karasuno hasn't used their big guns in this tournament yet.
Karasuno             Date Tech
Kageyama, give us a nice serve!
Take it for a point!
Shit!
I sent it straight to their libero!
That's one powerful serve.
He'll be scary to face once he learns to control it.
Whoa, he dug it out!
Holy crap!
Sorry, Ryuu! Cover it!
Got it!
Back!
A back attack?!
There were practically none in the previous match.
Asahi!
Shit!
Aw...
There was nothing you could do! Put it behind you!
Asahi, I'm sorry!
I'll get the next one!
Sure. Thanks.
But I'll make the next one count!
Huh? Aw, come on. Would it kill you to be more dejected?
Stop talking like a thug, Futakuchi!
Ow!
Karasuno             Date Tech
Damn!
Huh?
All right!
Net touch.
We lucked out!
Just don't let it get to you!
Date Tech just touched the net?
Karasuno avoided disaster.
They're pretty good, though.
The bond between their fast attacks and blocks is tight.
They're gonna be tough.
Nice receive!
Futakuchi!
I'm open!
Asahi!
Right on!
What, is it out? We get the point?
Nice job, Azumane!
Karasuno             Date Tech
Karasuno is barely maintaining their lead.
But they're being thwarted just enough to
prevent them from making satisfying spikes.
Yes.
If the blocks they're narrowly avoiding start to catch up to them multiple times in a row,
Nice receive!
the momentum will be taken from them.
Futakuchi!
Nice job getting a hand on it, Hinata!
No way!
Here's our chance to score!
We take the point that was nearly theirs and make it ours in a split-second.
We break their spirits while simultaneously boosting our own morale.
It is both the strongest defense and the fastest attack.
That...
is the block.
The Iron Wall of Date
Nice block!
Nice one, Aone!
Way to go, way to go, Aone!
It's a faster, wider, higher wall.
Good, good! Very good! Good, good!
There's no doubt.
It's an Iron Wall.
Shit!
Don't fret it. Focus on the next one.
Huh?
We'll definitely score next time.
We will?
Oh! Wanna go for it?
ls it time to do the zoom?!
It feels like it's been ages.
I want you to use your fastest speed and best jump.
I'll bring the ball
to you.
Haikyuu !!
Karasuno's fastest attack will come from their number ten.
However, their fast attack will be within the perimeter of our wall.
So why aren't they acting the least bit flustered?
Do you know why our deviant fast attack
was foiled when we played against Nekoma?
Yes, sir! Because Inuoka was crazy impressive!
Uh.
Yeah, I suppose that's a good point.
Because Nekoma's middle blocker
became accustomed to Hinata's moves.
Yup. Familiarization.
Although in Nekoma's case, I believe
they had a real sharp player on the team.
I suspect that player was Mr. Pudding-head.
It was Kenma!
Kenma caught a cold!
Inuoka, shut up. I didn't.
To be honest, I didn't expect them to
come up with a countermeasure that fast,
but sooner or later, every team will become accustomed to the deviant fast attack and learn to keep up with it.
Your fast attack is quite a powerful weapon,
but it isn't invincible.
The most important thing is...
...how we use it.
Karasuno             Date Tech
Ryuu!
Got it!
Even the most finely tuned read blocking can't keep up with this!
What was that?!
Yeah!
Yes!
They used their monster fast attack.
It sure is intense.
Wow, that's scary. It's obscene.
Prodigies really piss me off.
What a ridiculous set.
Did he make that hard set just to shake off Aone?
It couldn't be that simple. The spiker hit it too well.
But that had to be a fluke.
Do you know who he is?
Their number ten.
No. I don't recall him from the
junior high tournament whatsoever.
Was it a fluke, or was it deliberate?
Tsukishima, we're counting on you.
Sure.
Your Highness, I'd like a set further back from the net.
I don't want to be caught up by blockers.
Hmph.
What was that?
I said fine!
No, you obviously didn't.
So you don't like being ordered by plebeians. I see how it is!
Huh?!
Guys, knock it off!
You never learn!
Kageyama finally used his fast attack.
I'll bet Date Tech is confused.
You'll never find another fast attack like it in the world.
I'm terrified of what they might become.
I'm sorry! I'm sorry!
Dumbass! Hinata, you klutzy piece of shit!
Everything else is a learning curve.
Shake it off.
Noya, I'm sorry.
I've got this!
Karasuno             Date Tech
Aone, give us a good one!
All right!
That was a normal set.
Was the last one a fluke?
Or is number ten the only one who can do it?
Good job!
Nice, Tsukishima! One more!
Tsukki, nice one!
Hey!
All right! Let's take back what was ours!
Nice, Kamasaki!
Kamacchi, you're awesome!
Let's take it back!
Yeah!
Karasuno                Date Tech
Karasuno              Date Tech
The point gap is static.
But in the current rotation, Karasuno's
number ten has come to the front row again.
Number ten is here.
Kageyama hasn't made any of those way-too-fast sets since.
That's right! When I saw his
Kitagawa First match in junior high,
I seem to recall him leaving the spiker in the lurch several times with sets like that last one.
You're right. The moment I saw that set, I was sure
that his old bad habit had reared its ugly head again.
But their number ten hit that thing.
Almost like he was meant to.
Futakuchi!
Karasuno             Date Tech
Nice, Futakuchi!
Date Tech is tenacious.
Hey, it looks like Karasuno's
number ten has rotated to the front row.
Date Tech's amazing blocker, number seven, also has his turn in the front row.
It's Iron Wall versus Super-Fast Attack.
They might be thinking that last deviant fast attack was a fluke.
We're going in for another one!
Right!
It's on our side! Forward!
He retrieved it!
But they can't possibly do a fast attack with that positioning.
Who will he give it—
Right on!
Nice job, Hinata, Kageyama!
It's that set again!
Thank you, sir!
Okay! We're going in!
And this time he did it far back from the net!
That isn't a fluke?
Right on!
Date Tech immediately called for a timeout.
Karasuno's number ten is incredible.
You just can't hit a set like that normally.
The setter who aligns the set so perfectly
for the spiker is more amazing, technically.
Heh!
It's like watching God perform a miracle.
We couldn't figure it out at first either.
Karasuno             Date Tech
If that fast attack is the real deal,
we can't keep up with it using read blocking.
But ignoring it would be like taking a beating with the gloves down.
Any time there's the possibility of an attack by number ten, don't mark the set. Mark him.
Predict the set and jump.
However, keep in mind that
the attack may've been a fluke.
Keep cool and play it by ear.
Yes, sir!
I've never seen a fast attack like that before.
Do you think their number ten
is the only one who can do that?
You know, if that isn't a fluke, that means they're monsters.
That fast attack was freakish,
but the normal fast attacks they've been using
from the start can sneak by if we're not careful.
Anyway, we just need to stop number ten.
You're way too easygoing.
It's better than being uptight.
That's why you don't get the chicks.
What did you just say?!
But it's true.
Stop them, Aone!
Why, you!
In retrospect, all they've gotta do is stop number ten, right?
He's the only one standing out.
Date Tech's block seems to be beating the rest.
That's true.
Anyway, we're going to stop their number ten!
Yessir!
We need to stop number ten.
Number ten.
The Iron Wall of Date
Number ten!
Anyway,
"that tiny number ten" will set an excellent mood.
The brighter the mood is...
Now, bring it!
...and the more Hinata shines,
the more it will blind the opponent blockers.
You're so slow! We could've missed the match!
But customers are so rare!
Hurry up!
Great! The boys are still playing their second round match.
I don't believe it! They're beating Date Tech!
Bring it on!
All right!
He's ridiculously fast.
But that was close, Aone!
What was that?
A fast attack?
He's a first-year, isn't he?
Did that little guy just jump incredibly high?
Don't look so smug.
Looking good, Hinata!
What the?
That's the way! Do another one!
Make it a good serve!
Sugawara isn't playing.
Nishinoya!
B!
Give me a set!
Two attackers! Who will it be?!
He's jumping!
He's not jumping!
Yes!
Now a normal fast attack?
So are they setting at different speeds for each scenario?
The thing is, some pretty interesting first-years joined us recently.
If they prove effective,
I think Karasuno can improve by leaps and bounds.
Incredible.
Shit. Who is their number ten?
Okay, listen up!
Don't get sucked in!
We're making our attacks count too!
Yes, their number ten took us by surprise,
but you guys have overpowered all kinds of spikers!
Including Karasuno's ace!
And we'll stop them again!
Yes, sir!
Please say "we" instead of "you guys."
Futakuchi, I'm sorry I thought you were a snotty underclassman all this time.
Is that what you thought?
The Iron Wall of Date
Nice job, Aone!
He jumped twice!
When you're that big, the smallest jump can put your hand over the net.
Not only is he tall, his long arms and
wide shoulders make powerful weapons.
But there's more to him.
He's too calm to get tunnel vision,
and he has the tenacity to stop the ball.
His block comes from the combination of the two.
Hey, hey. That block is scary.
A block like that can change the momentum.
They need to make the next point, or Date Tech will ride the wave.
We're going to stop another one!
Yeah!
Keep your cool!
Stop them here!
Karasuno             Date Tech
Futakuchi! Give it what you've got!
Sorry, cover it!
Ryuu!
Got it!
Center!
Hinata!
On it!
All right!
Nishinoya!
Kageyama!
Right!
Karasuno has three attackers in the front!
Which will it be?!
Send it my way!
Number ten!
Blaze a path...
for the ace!
I get a clear view
of the other side.
Yes, I remember now.
This is it!
Y—
Yes!
That's the same pipe Nekoma did!
Asahi!
You guys are amazing.
I appreciate it.
Hey, you're the one who made it count!
Nice, Asahi!
Hold your head up high!
I want you to blaze a path for our ace!
Yes!
What's wrong?
I'm not the one who scored that point.
I'm not the one who spiked that, but...
Number ten!
It really gave me chills.
See? Being the greatest decoy
is just as cool as being the ace.
The greatest...
decoy.
Okay, we've showed them every weapon in our arsenal.
Now it's do-or-die.
We run laps convinced that we will all make it
We suffer through the nights for a vision we chose on a whim
If you really want fairness then we'd all look basically the same
We will suffer through more nights for a vision instead of standing still
Our passion burns until the morning and we advance with closed eyes
I haven't forgotten you despite this passion
I run with only my headlight for guidance
No matter what awaits me I will laugh in this body I was born in
Is there someone running with your taillight for guidance?
What you call determination just means bunching up
Is someone going to follow up on all these impressions?
Will vowing to never falter let me laugh again?
Next Episode Preview
It's not like before.
What's not, Aone?
Karasuno.
For sure! Now that the setter and short guy are on the team, it's hard to target our block—
The lady manager's hair style.
You're hung up on that?!
Next time on Haikyuu!!:
Episode Eighteen:
Back Protection
"Back Protection."